Update CNI docs (#4398)
istio/istio.io: content/docs/setup/kubernetes/additional-setup/cni/index.md

for users deploying pods into the Istio mesh.  The [Istio CNI plugin](https://github.com/istio/cni)
replaces the functionality provided by the `istio-init` container.

This installation guide uses [Helm](https://github.com/helm/helm) charts.  Refer to the
[Istio Installation with Helm procedure](/docs/setup/kubernetes/install/helm/) for more detailed instructions.

## Prerequisites

> 1. [Download the Istio release](/docs/setup/kubernetes/#downloading-the-release).

Author: The CNI chart is now shipped in the Istio release.

> 1. [Download the Istio release](/docs/setup/kubernetes/#downloading-the-release).

Author: Cf. https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/14752

        *  AWS EKS, Azure AKS, and IBM Cloud IKS clusters are setup appropriately by default.
        *  Google Cloud GKE clusters require that the
           [network-policy](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/how-to/network-policy) feature
           is enabled to have Kubernetes configured with `network-plugin=cni`.

    1.  Ensure the [ServiceAccount admission controller](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/#serviceaccount) is enabled.
        The Kubernetes documentation highly recommends this for all Kubernetes installations
        where `ServiceAccounts` are utilized.

    1.  Determine the Kubernetes environment's CNI plugin `--cni-bin-dir` and `--cni-conf-dir` settings.
        Refer to the [Hosted Kubernetes Usage](#hosted-kubernetes-usage) section for any non-default
        settings required.

1. Check the [Requirements for Pods and Services](/docs/setup/kubernetes/additional-setup/requirements/).

1. [Install a Helm client](https://github.com/helm/helm/blob/master/docs/install.md) with a version higher than 2.10.

## Helm chart release repositories

> The commands in this guide use the Helm charts that are included in the Istio release image.

Author: As I commented above, the CNI chart now ships in the Istio archive, cf. https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/14752.

> The commands in this guide use the Helm charts that are included in the Istio release image.

Reviewer: I know the chart now ships with the Istio archive,  but that doesn't change the point of my comment.   It is not the only way to get the chart.

If you want to use the Istio release Helm chart repository instead, adjust the commands accordingly and
add the Istio release repository as follows:

{{< text bash >}}
$ helm repo add istio.io https://storage.googleapis.com/istio-release/releases/{{< istio_full_version >}}/charts/
{{< /text >}}

## Installation steps

Change directory to the root of the release and then
choose one of the following two **mutually exclusive** options:

> 1. To deploy Istio without using Tiller, follow the instructions for [option 1](/docs/setup/kubernetes/additional-setup/cni/#option-1-install-with-helm-via-helm-template).

Author: Ditto.

1. To use [Helm's Tiller pod](https://helm.sh/) to manage your Istio release, follow the instructions for [option 2](/docs/setup/kubernetes/additional-setup/cni/#option-2-install-with-helm-and-tiller-via-helm-install).

### Option 1: Install with Helm via `helm template`

Choose this option if your cluster doesn't have [Tiller](https://github.com/kubernetes/helm/blob/master/docs/architecture.md#components)
deployed and you don't want to install it.

1. Create a namespace for the `istio-system` components:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl create namespace istio-system
    {{< /text >}}

1. Render and apply the Istio CNI components.
   
   {{< text bash >}}
   $ helm template install/kubernetes/helm/istio-cni --name=istio-cni --namespace=istio-system | kubectl apply -f -
   {{< /text >}}

1. Install all the Istio
    [Custom Resource Definitions](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-resources/#customresourcedefinitions)
    (CRDs) using `kubectl apply`, and wait a few seconds for the CRDs to be committed in the Kubernetes API-server:

    {{< text bash >}}

>     $ helm template install/kubernetes/helm/istio-init --name istio-init --namespace istio-system | kubectl apply -f -

Reviewer: All istio install related text should be removed.  Istio and Istio-cni are now two very distinct steps and we don't want to refer to Isito install here in case it becomes stale and doesn't match how the main Istio install steps evolve.   The only thing that should be preserved and highlighted AS MUCH AS POSSIBLE is that the istio install need to be done with  `--set istio_cni.enabled=true`

Author: There is still a lot in common that was missing, e.g. the proper installation of Tiller. We need to give at least a copy-and-pastable example of a command to install `istio` with `--set istio_cni.enabled=true`, and stop there. And that's exactly what I've done here. I've removed all other profiles, for example. I don't see what else I can remove.

Reviewer: I don't agree the more istio install content we put here the quicker it becomes out of date.  This was originally written at a time when the Istio and Istio-cni installs where tightly coupled.   Now the only two intersections points are that the istio-cni helm charts are available as part of the istio CNI and the istio install needs to set the istio_cni.enabled flag.  We should refactor this to only touch on those two intersection points.  If you want to provide links to create the coupling that is ok because at least if the link becomes stale the intent would still be clear.

Reviewer 2: @john-a-joyce -- for release-1.1 the doc was updated with the separation of the istio-cni v. istio.  A lot of the stuff @rlenglet is adding is putting in repeated content from the Istio getting started guide and I disagree with that.  The existing istio-cni doc installation section-- https://istio.io/docs/setup/kubernetes/additional-setup/cni/#installation--it just refers to the details for installing the istio-cni and then an example command for passing the helm setting for `istio_cni.enabled=true`.   

@sdake's confusion triggering the issue creation was 
1) the istio helm chart / test-and-release changes broke the procedure by removing the istio-cni tarfile from the istio release charts 
2) he thought he could copy paste everything in just this doc and get Istio installed with the CNI.  (maybe auto-pilot from other doc usage)  

For 1) that's been addressed by the PR for the release/ stuff.  For 2) we can improve the commentary about the procedure but the  procedure still is the same as release-1.1.

    to use other profiles.
    
    {{< text bash >}}
    $ helm template install/kubernetes/helm/istio --name istio --namespace istio-system \
          --set istio_cni.enabled=true | kubectl apply -f -
    {{< /text >}}

### Option 2: Install with Helm and Tiller via `helm install`

This option allows Helm and
[Tiller](https://github.com/kubernetes/helm/blob/master/docs/architecture.md#components)
to manage the lifecycle of Istio.

{{< boilerplate helm-security-warning >}}

1. Make sure you have a service account with the `cluster-admin` role defined for Tiller.
   If not already defined, create one using following command:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f @install/kubernetes/helm/helm-service-account.yaml@
    {{< /text >}}

1. Install Tiller on your cluster with the service account:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ helm init --service-account tiller
    {{< /text >}}

1. Install the `istio-cni` chart:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ helm install install/kubernetes/helm/istio-cni --name istio-cni --namespace istio-system
    {{< /text >}}

> 1. Install the `istio-init` chart to bootstrap all the Istio's CRDs:

Reviewer: Ditto above remove all Istio installation steps

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ helm install install/kubernetes/helm/istio-init --name istio-init --namespace istio-system
    {{< /text >}}

1. {{< boilerplate verify-crds >}}

1. Select a [configuration profile](/docs/setup/kubernetes/additional-setup/config-profiles/)
    and then install the `istio` chart corresponding to your chosen profile
    with the `--set istio_cni.enabled=true` setting.
    The **default** profile is recommended for production deployments.
    Refer to the the [Istio Installation with Helm procedure](/docs/setup/kubernetes/install/helm/#option-2-install-with-helm-and-tiller-via-helm-install)
    to use other profiles.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ helm install install/kubernetes/helm/istio --name istio --namespace istio-system --set istio_cni.enabled=true
    {{< /text >}}

> ### Example: excluding specific Kubernetes namespaces

Reviewer: I know this is WIP but Steve wanted "Exampled" removed

Author: Will do.

    *  The Kubernetes documentation highly recommends this for all Kubernetes installations
       where `ServiceAccounts` are utilized.

## Installation

1.  Determine the Kubernetes environment's CNI plugin `--cni-bin-dir` and `--cni-conf-dir` settings.
    Refer to [Hosted Kubernetes settings](#hosted-kubernetes-settings) for any non-default settings required.

> 1.  Install Istio CNI and Istio using Helm.

Reviewer: Per my previous comments I am not sure why feel compelled to include the Istio install here.  The rest of this page is not dependent on any Istio installation steps so it isn't required to install the CNI.  If you few strongly that the Istio install should be left here at least change the wording to say something "it is also recommended to install Istio at this time".  Practically it would be better to not install Istio at the same time as any containers that require a sidecar are dependent on the CNI being up before they can commence.

Author: It _is_ intertwined with the Istio installation steps. Especially, the following steps must be completed beforehand: download the release, install Helm (incl. creating the account for Tiller), create the `istio-system` namespace.

Reviewer: A couple points.   You don't have to download the release its just the most convenient way to get the helm chart.   You also don't need to install the CNI in the istio-system namespace it works just fine in its own namespace.  We also document an option that doesn't require Tiller.   So it is absolutely not required to install Istio to get the CNI installed.   If you want to keep it the Istio install in the documentation at least note it is recommended and not required.  Alternatively and slightly better would be to note why it is recommended to install Istio as you have noted in your response above (i.e. Chart, ns & accounts)    Also the implied order here is wrong as you only want to follow enough of the Istio install to get the helm chart, create the necessary accounts and create the namespace.   Then you want to complete the CNI install before completing the Istio install otherwise some of the Istio pods will not install until the CNI is up.

Reviewer 2: @john-a-joyce  -- IMO, for the purposes of this doc the Istio and istio-cni installs are intertwined.  I went through the same discussion in release 1.1 about just describing purely the istio-cni install and the opinions were that it should be contextualized along with the getting started guide's procedure for Istio install.  There also was a strong push for documentation simplicity over detailed scenarios so a lot of my original explanations about the independence of the CNI install were removed during review.  

@rlenglet -- We should convey that the istio-cni install works with any of the Istio install profiles and explain the step in "default with CNI enabled" tab for installing the istio-cni is identical for all profiles.  Possibly we want to pull out the istio-cni apply into its own step in the procedure like it was prior but add it to the helm install doc like you've started with the new tab.

Reviewer: @tiswanso - I recall the history - but at the same time the Istio and istio-cni where more interwound at that time now they are almost entirely separated.   Although i feel strongly about this I seem to be in the minority on this point.   If the Istio install is left in these instructions then there MUST be some type of note to indicate that the CNI install should be completed before the bulk of the Istio install should be attempted.

Reviewer: I still disagree that the istio install should be mention here at all.  As currently written it goes in circles.  
Istio Install docs - "go install CNI"
CNI install instructions - "go install Istio"

That is plain stupid in my opinion,  I don't really care what history go us to this point.  It is still stupid and confusing.  I am tired of arguing about it so this will be my last comment on the topic.  If people insist that Istio install should be included here in the CNI install steps I implore you to at least make sure the reader understands that the CNI should be installed first.

Reviewer 2: @rlenglet -- I spoke with @john-a-joyce.  His concerns would be satisfied with a warning or blurb in the CNI installation doc to the effect of:
"The Istio installation may fail if the Istio CNI plugin is not installed prior."

Author: Sorry, catching up on this thread.

> You don't have to download the release its just the most convenient way to get the helm chart.

More than "the most convenient way", my view point is that this doc should specify **the recommended way** to install the Istio CNI plugin, which guarantees that it it will work regardless of how users decide to install Istio. If users decide to install Istio using Tiller, which is one of the recommended ways to install Istio, the doc should make it easy to work for them.

> We also document an option that doesn't require Tiller.

True, but we should document precisely how the Istio CNI needs to be installed in the Tiller case, since Tiller is a recommended way to install Istio, and installing Istio CNI in this scenario is far from trivial.

> Then you want to complete the CNI install before completing the Istio install otherwise some of the Istio pods will not install until the CNI is up.

How could that happen if the user followed the new install doc step-by-step?

> explain the step in "default with CNI enabled" tab for installing the istio-cni is identical for all profiles.

OK, I'll do that.

> Possibly we want to pull out the istio-cni apply into its own step in the procedure like it was prior but add it to the helm install doc like you've started with the new tab.

I decided against doing that because the installation of the `istio-cni` chart is strongly coupled with passing `--set istio_cni.enabled=true`. Putting those commands together highlights the strong dependency.

Reviewer 3: @rlenglet I understand what you are trying to do is supply information that works for as many readers as possible. I understand that you want CNI to work for readers that are using Tiller and those that aren't, for example. Istio offers configuration profiles for installation. My advice is that you pick a configuration profile during install and write the document based on that configuration profile. Then you can just introduce this doc by saying in the Before you begin section: "Install Istio using [the configuration profile you select]."

Reviewer: FWIW you can't install Istio first it will fail or at least spin its wheels until the CNI comes up.  By install I mean the actual kube apply of the Istio YAML some of the Istio install steps must be done first (e.g to download the release.

>     Refer to the [Customizable Install with Helm](/docs/setup/kubernetes/install/helm/#cni) instructions and the **default with CNI enabled** profile.

Reviewer: This link didn't seem to work for me maybe this is expected with things in transit.

Author: @john-a-joyce  What do you mean it doesn't work? The `#cni` hash at the end highlights the tabs that install the Istio CNI. Doesn't that work for you?

    *  The Kubernetes documentation highly recommends this for all Kubernetes installations
       where `ServiceAccounts` are utilized.

> 

Reviewer 3: The Istio installation needs to be part of the prerequisites. Readers need to be able to enable CNI independently from installing Istio.

Author: No, it can't be done before installing Istio CNI.
The installation of Istio and the Istio CNI is done in the 2nd step of the "Installation" section.

## Installation

1.  Determine the Kubernetes environment's CNI plugin `--cni-bin-dir` and `--cni-conf-dir` settings.
    Refer to [Hosted Kubernetes settings](#hosted-kubernetes-settings) for any non-default settings required.

1.  Install Istio CNI and Istio using Helm.
    Refer to the [Customizable Install with Helm](/docs/setup/kubernetes/install/helm/#cni) instructions and the **Istio CNI enabled** profile.
    Pass `--set cniBinDir=...` and/or `--set cniConfDir=...` options when installing `istio-cni` if non-default, as determined in the previous step.

### Helm chart parameters

> The following table indicates all the options supported by the `istio-cni` Helm chart:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following table shows all the options that the the `istio-cni` Helm chart supports:
```

Author: Done.

| `excludeNamespaces` | `[]string` | `[ istio-system ]` | List of namespaces to exclude from Istio pod check. |
| `cniBinDir` | | `/opt/cni/bin` | Must be the same as the environment's `--cni-bin-dir` setting (`kubelet` parameter). |
| `cniConfDir` | | `/etc/cni/net.d` | Must be the same as the environment's `--cni-conf-dir` setting (`kubelet` parameter). |
| `cniConfFileName` | | | Leave unset to auto-find the first file in the `cni-conf-dir` (as `kubelet` does).  Primarily used for testing `install-cni` plugin configuration.  If set, `install-cni` will inject the plugin configuration into this file in the `cni-conf-dir`. |

### Excluding specific Kubernetes namespaces

This example uses Helm to perform the following tasks:

> - Install the Istio CNI plugin.

Reviewer 3: You need a blank line here for the list to render properly.
```suggestion

- Install the Istio CNI plugin.
```

| `cniConfDir` | | `/etc/cni/net.d` | Must be the same as the environment's `--cni-conf-dir` setting (`kubelet` parameter). |
| `cniConfFileName` | | None | Leave unset to auto-find the first file in the `cni-conf-dir` (as `kubelet` does).  Primarily used for testing `install-cni` plugin configuration.  If set, `install-cni` will inject the plugin configuration into this file in the `cni-conf-dir`. |

### Excluding specific Kubernetes namespaces

> This example configures the Istio CNI plugin via `helm template` to modify the log level and

Reviewer 3: Readers can be confused if they don't know that `helm template` is just a Helm command. User lists instead of paragraphs to make the content more scannable. This applies to all lists in paragraphs but I am only leaving a suggestion here:

```suggestion
This example uses Helm to perform the following tasks:

- Configure the Istio CNI plugin 
- Modify the log level
- Ignore the pods in the following namespaces:
    - `istio-system`
    - `foo_ns`
    - `bar_ns`
```

Author: Done.

> ignore pods in the namespaces `istio-system`, `foo_ns`, and `bar_ns`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Refer to the [Customizable Install with Helm](/docs/setup/kubernetes/install/helm/#cni) for complete instructions.

> Render and apply Istio CNI components and override the default configuration of the `istio-cni` Helm

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Use the following command to render and apply Istio CNI components and override the default configuration of the `istio-cni` Helm
```

Author: Done.

chart's `logLevel` and `excludeNamespaces` parameters:

{{< text bash >}}
$ helm template install/kubernetes/helm/istio-cni --name=istio-cni --namespace=istio-system \
    --set logLevel=info \
    --set excludeNamespaces={"istio-system,kube-system,foo_ns,bar_ns"} | kubectl apply -f -
{{< /text >}}

### Hosted Kubernetes settings

> The Istio CNI solution is not ubiquitous. Some platforms, especially hosted Kubernetes environments, do not enable the CNI plugin in the kubelet configuration.

Reviewer 3: Please respect the 80 character length.
```suggestion
The Istio CNI solution is not ubiquitous. Some platforms, especially hosted Kubernetes environments,
do not enable the CNI plugin in the kubelet configuration.
```

Author: That would result in a lot of churn in this file. It seems like it's been edited with ~100 columns. I'll stick to that and fix the lines longer than 100 columns.

The `istio-cni` plugin is expected to work with any hosted Kubernetes leveraging CNI plugins.
The following table indicates the required settings for many common Kubernetes environments.

| Hosted Cluster Type | Required Istio CNI Setting Overrides | Required Platform Setting Overrides |
|---------------------|--------------------------------------|-------------------------------------|
| GKE 1.9+ (see [GKE setup](#gke-setup) below for details)| `cniBinDir=/home/kubernetes/bin` | enable [network-policy](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/how-to/network-policy) |
| IKS (IBM cloud) | _(none)_ | _(none)_ |
| EKS (AWS) | _(none)_ | _(none)_ |
| AKS (Azure) | _(none)_ | _(none)_ |
| Red Hat OpenShift 3.10+ | _(none)_ | _(none)_ |

### GKE setup

1.  Refer to the procedure to [prepare a GKE cluster for Istio](/docs/setup/kubernetes/platform-setup/gke/) and
    enable [network-policy](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/how-to/network-policy) in your cluster.

    {{< warning >}}

>     For existing clusters, this redeploys all the nodes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    For existing clusters, this redeploys all nodes.
```

Author: Done.

1.  The pod has more than 1 container.
1.  The pod has no annotation with key `sidecar.istio.io/inject` OR the value of the annotation is `true`.

### Traffic redirection parameters

To redirect traffic in the application pod's network namespace to/from the Istio proxy sidecar, the Istio
CNI plugin configures the namespace's iptables.  The following table describes the parameters to the

> redirect functionality.  The default values for the parameters can be overridden by setting the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
redirect functionality.  To override the default values for the parameters, set the
```

Author: Done.

corresponding application pod annotation key.

| Annotation Key | Values | Default | Description |
|----------------|--------|---------|-------------|
| `sidecar.istio.io/interceptionMode`| `REDIRECT`, `TPROXY` | `REDIRECT` | The iptables redirect mode to use. |

> | `traffic.sidecar.istio.io/includeOutboundIPRanges` | `<IPCidr1>,<IPCidr2>,...` | `"*"` | Optional comma separated list of IP ranges in CIDR form to redirect to the sidecar proxy.  The default value of `"*"` redirects all traffic. |

Reviewer 3: Please use bold to emphasize the fields that are optional. For example:
```suggestion
| `traffic.sidecar.istio.io/includeOutboundIPRanges` | `<IPCidr1>,<IPCidr2>,...` | `"*"` | **Optional** Comma separated list of IP ranges in CIDR form to redirect to the sidecar proxy.  The default value of `"*"` redirects all traffic. |
```

Author: They are all optional, with default values. I'll just remove the occurrences of "Optional" in this table.

| `traffic.sidecar.istio.io/excludeOutboundIPRanges` | `<IPCidr1>,<IPCidr2>,...` | | Optional comma separated list of IP ranges in CIDR form to be excluded from redirection.  Only applies when `includeOutboundIPRanges` is `"*"`. |
| `traffic.sidecar.istio.io/includeInboundPorts` | `<port1>,<port2>,...` | Pod's list of `containerPorts` | Comma separated list of inbound ports for which traffic is to be redirected to the Istio proxy sidecar.  The value of `"*"` redirects all ports. |
| `traffic.sidecar.istio.io/excludeInboundPorts` | `<port1>,<port2>,...` | | Comma separated list of inbound ports to be excluded from redirection to the Istio sidecar proxy.  Only valid when `includeInboundPorts` is `"*"`. |
| `traffic.sidecar.istio.io/excludeOutboundPorts` | `<port1>,<port2>,...` | | Comma separated list of outbound ports to be excluded from redirection to Envoy. | 
| `traffic.sidecar.istio.io/kubevirtInterfaces` | `<ethX>,<ethY>,...` | | Comma separated list of virtual interfaces whose inbound traffic (from VM) will be treated as outbound. |

> Cluster-wide defaults for these parameters can be set using the corresponding

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To set cluster-wide defaults for these parameters, use the corresponding
```

Author: Done.

> [`global.proxy.*` parameters](/docs/reference/config/installation-options/#global-options) when installing the `istio`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[`global.proxy.*` parameters](/docs/reference/config/installation-options/#global-options) when installing Istio via
```

Author: Done.

> Helm chart.  For instance, to set a default `traffic.sidecar.istio.io/excludeOutboundIPRanges` option for all pods in

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
the `istio` Helm chart.  For example, you can set a default `traffic.sidecar.istio.io/excludeOutboundIPRanges` option for all pods in
```

Author: Done.

> the cluster when installing Istio:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
the cluster using the following command to install Istio:
```

Author: Done.

{{< text bash >}}
$ helm template install/kubernetes/helm/istio --name istio --namespace istio-system \
    --set global.proxy.excludeOutboundPorts=53 | kubectl apply -f -
{{< /text >}}

### Logging

> The Istio CNI plugin is run by the container runtime process space. Therefore, the log entries are logged by the

Reviewer 3: No passive voice please. Readers, particularly non-native English readers have a very difficult time untangling passive voice. Opt instead for the simple present:
```suggestion
The container runtime process space runs the Istio CNI plugin. Due to this, the `kubelet` process creates the entries in the log.
```

Author: Done.

the `kubelet` process.

### Compatibility with application init containers

> The Istio CNI plugin may cause networking problems for any application `initContainers`, since the plugin

Reviewer 3: This entire paragraph is very difficult to follow. What can cause problems? Are the problems caused by my container, by Istio, by CNI? Where do I need to go to fix it? Should I change the sidecar? Those are just some of the questions a reader might have by the end of the paragraph. 
Please rewrite. IMO explaining the process as it works normally first and then pointing out which step can be problematic because the redirect gets put in place before the Istio initialization container runs, would go a long way. Ideally, explain it in a numbered list.

Author: > What can cause problems?

I think this is pretty clear: "The Istio CNI plugin may cause networking problems"

Author: Split into a numbered list.

To redirect traffic in the application pod's network namespace to/from the Istio proxy sidecar, the Istio
CNI plugin configures the namespace's iptables.  The following table describes the parameters to the

> redirect functionality.  The default values for the parameters can be overridden by setting the

Reviewer: It might be worth mentioning that these parameters can also be set via helm values.

Author: Done.

| `traffic.sidecar.istio.io/includeInboundPorts` | `<port1>,<port2>,...` | Pod's list of `containerPorts` | Comma separated list of inbound ports for which traffic is to be redirected to the Istio proxy sidecar.  The value of `"*"` redirects all ports. |
| `traffic.sidecar.istio.io/excludeInboundPorts` | `<port1>,<port2>,...` | | Comma separated list of inbound ports to be excluded from redirection to the Istio sidecar proxy.  Only valid when `includeInboundPorts` is `"*"`. |
| `traffic.sidecar.istio.io/excludeOutboundPorts` | `<port1>,<port2>,...` | | Comma separated list of outbound ports to be excluded from redirection to Envoy. | 
| `traffic.sidecar.istio.io/kubevirtInterfaces` | `<ethX>,<ethY>,...` | | Comma separated list of virtual interfaces whose inbound traffic (from VM) will be treated as outbound. |

### Logging

The Istio CNI plugin is run by the container runtime process space. Therefore, the log entries are logged by the
the `kubelet` process.

### Compatibility with application init containers

> Installing the Istio CNI plugin may cause networking problems for any application `initContainers`, since the plugin

Reviewer 2: nit... remove the word "Installing"

Author: Done.

| `traffic.sidecar.istio.io/includeInboundPorts` | `<port1>,<port2>,...` | Pod's list of `containerPorts` | Comma separated list of inbound ports for which traffic is to be redirected to the Istio proxy sidecar.  The value of `"*"` redirects all ports. |
| `traffic.sidecar.istio.io/excludeInboundPorts` | `<port1>,<port2>,...` | | Comma separated list of inbound ports to be excluded from redirection to the Istio sidecar proxy.  Only valid when `includeInboundPorts` is `"*"`. |
| `traffic.sidecar.istio.io/excludeOutboundPorts` | `<port1>,<port2>,...` | | Comma separated list of outbound ports to be excluded from redirection to Envoy. |
| `traffic.sidecar.istio.io/kubevirtInterfaces` | `<ethX>,<ethY>,...` | | Comma separated list of virtual interfaces whose inbound traffic (from VM) will be treated as outbound. |

### Logging

The Istio CNI plugin runs in the container runtime process space.
Due to this, the `kubelet` process writes the plugin's log entries into its log.

### Compatibility with application init containers

> The Istio CNI plugin may cause networking connectivity problems for any application `initContainers`. When using Istio CNI, `kubelet`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Istio CNI plugin may cause networking connectivity problems for any `initContainers` application.  When using Istio CNI, `kubelet`
```

Author: I disagree with this suggestion. We explicitly use `application` here is to distinguish from non-application init containers such as the `istio-init` init container injected by Istio in the non-CNI case. `initContainers application` has a different meaning.

starts an injected pod with the following steps:

> 1. The Istio CNI plugin sets up traffic redirection to the Istio sidecar proxy within the pod.

Reviewer 3: Add a blank line here for the list to render properly.
```suggestion

1. The Istio CNI plugin sets up traffic redirection to the Istio sidecar proxy within the pod.
```

> 1. All init containers execute and successfully complete.

Author: Done.

> 1. The Istio sidecar proxy is started in the pod along with the pod's other containers.

Author: Done.

> Init containers execute before the sidecar proxy is started, which may result in traffic loss during their execution.

Author: Done.

> This traffic loss can be avoided by:

Author: Done.

> - setting the `traffic.sidecar.istio.io/excludeOutboundIPRanges` annotation to disable redirecting traffic to any

Author: Done.

> - Set the `traffic.sidecar.istio.io/excludeOutboundIPRanges` annotation to disable redirecting traffic to any

Reviewer 3: Add a blank line here for the list to render properly.
```suggestion

- Set the `traffic.sidecar.istio.io/excludeOutboundIPRanges` annotation to disable redirecting traffic to any
```

  CIDRs the init containers communicate with,

> - and/or setting the `traffic.sidecar.istio.io/excludeOutboundPorts` annotation to disable redirecting traffic to the

Author: Done.

| `traffic.sidecar.istio.io/includeInboundPorts` | `<port1>,<port2>,...` | Pod's list of `containerPorts` | Comma separated list of inbound ports for which traffic is to be redirected to the Istio proxy sidecar.  The value of `"*"` redirects all ports. |
| `traffic.sidecar.istio.io/excludeInboundPorts` | `<port1>,<port2>,...` | | Comma separated list of inbound ports to be excluded from redirection to the Istio sidecar proxy.  Only valid when `includeInboundPorts` is `"*"`. |
| `traffic.sidecar.istio.io/excludeOutboundPorts` | `<port1>,<port2>,...` | | Comma separated list of outbound ports to be excluded from redirection to Envoy. | 
| `traffic.sidecar.istio.io/kubevirtInterfaces` | `<ethX>,<ethY>,...` | | Comma separated list of virtual interfaces whose inbound traffic (from VM) will be treated as outbound. |

To set cluster-wide defaults for these parameters, use the corresponding
[`global.proxy.*` parameters](/docs/reference/config/installation-options/#global-options) when installing Istio via
the `istio` Helm chart.  For example, you can set a default `traffic.sidecar.istio.io/excludeOutboundIPRanges` option

> for all pods in the cluster using the following command to install Istio:

Reviewer 2: The PR for making the global params get into annotations on the pod wasn't allowed to get backported to 1.2.  https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/14858

Author: Yeah, you're right. I had doubts about this part.
I removed this paragraph.

### Logging

The Istio CNI plugin is run by the container runtime process space. Therefore, the log entries are logged by the
the `kubelet` process.

> ## Compatibility with other CNI plugins

Reviewer 2: In this section, @sdake had a comment that the `warning` wording was ambiguous.  Could you change "this should have no effect" to "The Istio CNI plugin should have no effect" in this PR.

Author: Done.

sidecar (using `iptables` in the pod's network namespace).

{{< warning >}}

> The Istio CNI plugin should have no effect on the operations performed by the base CNI plugin configuring the pod's networking setup, although not all CNI plugins have been validated.

Reviewer 3: I tried to untangle the passive voice here as well. It's difficult because you have two plugins involved. What is the core message you want to tell readers? Is there anyway of phrasing this a bit more clearly?
```suggestion
The base CNI plugin that configures the pod's networking setup performs operations that the Istio CNI plugin should not affect, although not all CNI plugins have been validated.
```

Author: I'm suggesting this:
> The Istio CNI plugin should not interfere with the operations of the base CNI plugin that configures the pod's networking setup, ...
